To implement a session, we'll need another third party package,
we'll need another package which helps us with managing sessions. For that we'll install it with npm
install --save and the package is named express-session, it's a package which is actually part
of the official expressjs suite but not baked into expressjs itself
but now we already got it installed and now we're ready to use it. To use it,
we'll go to our app.js file because we want to initialize that session early on,
we want to initialize that session when we,
well when we start up our server then we want to initialize the session middleware at least and the session
will then be used for every incoming request.
So in here we create a new constant,
so we basically import something here which I'll name session, the name is up to you and I will require
express session,
that is what I'll require here,
so that is the package
we just installed.
Now with that installed, we can set it up here along with the other middleware let's say. There we register
another middleware with app use and to app use, we pass session and we execute this as a function
and to the function,
we pass a javascript object where we configure the session setup.
For example we need to set a secret,
this will be used for signing the hash which secretly stores our ID in the cookie.
So here I'll set
a secret, you can enter any text here,
it should typically be a long string,
I'll name it my secret
but again in production, this should be a long string value.
Then you should add the re-save option and set this to false,
this means that the session will not be saved on every request that is done, so on every response that
is sent
but only if something changed in the session.,
this will obviously improve performance and so on.
Also there is the save uninitialized value which you should set to false because this will also basically
ensure that no session gets saved for a request where it doesn't need to be saved because nothing was
changed about it
and that is it.
These are the core things you need to set.
You could for example also configure the session cookie, you could give it a max age by setting a date
or add the expires key,
so you can configure that cookie but you can also go with the default settings. And with that, the session
middleware is initialized and we're now ready to use the session.
Now let's start using it in the next lecture.